#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass extarticle
\begin_preamble
%break monospaced
\usepackage{everysel}
\EverySelectfont{%
\hyphenchar\font=`\-% to allow hyphenation
}

% pagenumbers
\usepackage{scrlayer-scrpage}
\pagestyle{scrheadings}
\ofoot{\arabic{page}}
\ohead{}

% break urls
\expandafter\def\expandafter\UrlBreaks\expandafter{\UrlBreaks%  save the current one
  \do\1\do\2\do\3\do\4\do\5\do\6\do\7\do\8\do\9\do\0%
  \do\a\do\b\do\c\do\d\do\e\do\f\do\g\do\h\do\i\do\j%
  \do\k\do\l\do\m\do\n\do\o\do\p\do\q\do\r\do\s\do\t%
  \do\u\do\v\do\w\do\x\do\y\do\z\do\A\do\B\do\C\do\D%
  \do\E\do\F\do\G\do\H\do\I\do\J\do\K\do\L\do\M\do\N%
  \do\O\do\P\do\Q\do\R\do\S\do\T\do\U\do\V\do\W\do\X%
  \do\Y\do\Z\do\-\do\_\do\/\do\\\do\:}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "libertine" "default"
\font_sans "avant" "default"
\font_typewriter "beramono" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 80 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Baeldung's LyX Tutorial"
\pdf_author "Francesco Galgani"
\pdf_subject "Baeldung LyX Tutorial"
\pdf_keywords "Baeldung LyX Tutorial"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 10
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref section
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdftex,linkcolor=blue,citecolor=blue,filecolor=blue,urlcolor=blue"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Classification of Living Beings: A Brief Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Francesco Galgani
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
August 13, 2023
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The classification of living beings is a fundamental aspect of biology,
 enabling us to understand the diversity of life on Earth.
 This article provides a concise overview of the hierarchical system used
 to classify organisms, from the broadest categories to the finer details
 of species.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The world teems with a vast array of living organisms, each uniquely adapted
 to its environment.
 To make sense of this biodiversity, scientists have developed a classification
 system that organizes living beings based on shared characteristics and
 evolutionary relationships.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Taxonomic Hierarchy: Dividing the Living World
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the highest level, living beings are divided into three domains: Archaea,
 Bacteria, and Eukarya.
 Each domain is further divided into kingdoms, which group organisms based
 on their cellular structure, nutrition, and other essential features.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Domain Archaea
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Archaea constitute a diverse group of microorganisms that thrive in extreme
 environments.
 Once thought to be similar to bacteria, research has revealed their distinct
 genetic and biochemical characteristics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Domain Bacteria
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bacteria are single-celled microorganisms found virtually everywhere.
 While some species are pathogenic, many play crucial roles in nutrient
 cycling and other ecological processes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Domain Eukarya
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Eukarya encompass a vast array of organisms, from simple protists to complex
 multicellular beings.
 This domain is further divided into kingdoms, including Plantae, Animalia,
 Fungi, and Protista.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Kingdoms: The Diversity Within Eukarya
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The kingdom is the second-highest taxonomic rank, highlighting the primary
 characteristics shared by organisms within each group.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Kingdom Plantae
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Plants are autotrophic, multicellular organisms that utilize photosynthesis
 to convert sunlight into energy.
 They provide oxygen, food, and habitat for countless other organisms.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Kingdom Animalia
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Animals are heterotrophic multicellular organisms that exhibit a wide range
 of adaptations for movement, feeding, and reproduction.
 They occupy diverse ecological niches.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Kingdom Fungi
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fungi are crucial decomposers in ecosystems, breaking down organic matter
 and recycling nutrients.
 They can be either single-celled (yeasts) or multicellular (mushrooms).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Kingdom Protista
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Protists are a diverse group of mostly unicellular eukaryotes, some of which
 exhibit plant-like, animal-like, or fungal-like characteristics.
 They can be aquatic or terrestrial.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The classification of living beings is a dynamic field, with ongoing discoveries
 and revisions as our understanding of genetics and evolution deepens.
 This hierarchical system allows us to navigate the incredible richness
 of life, providing insights into the interconnectedness of all living organisms.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
